Default Parameters (#56)
cplusplus/SG20: functions/defaulted-parameters.md

> # Module name: default argument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Functions: default argument
```
Fixes missing module name

_Skeleton instructions are typeset in italic text._

## Overview

Functions in C++ may be overloaded with different numbers and types of 
parameters. It may be of value to specify default values for some number 

> of parameters, to allow a caller to avoid specifying parameters that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of parameters, to allow a caller to avoid specifying arguments that 
```

rarely change, or to enable expanding the set of parameters while 
maintaining backward compatibility with existing callers.

<table>
  <thead>
    <th>Level</th>
    <th>Objectives</th>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td>Foundational</td>
    <td>Define and use functions with defaulted parameters</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Main</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Advanced</td>
    <td>refinement of defaulted parameters through multiple declarations</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Motivation

Default parameters allow the omission of parameters with obvious or common
values. Also may be utilized to extend an existing function signature 
without forcing changes to existing calling code.

## Topic introduction

> Explain how default parameters work and how to define them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explain how default arguments work and how to define them.
```

## Foundational: Using and defining functions with default arguments

### Background/Required Knowledge

A student is able to:

> * Make calls to existing functions, passing parameters [[Functions: calling functions]][1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make calls to existing functions, passing arguments [[Functions: calling functions]][1]
```

* Declare member and non-member functions, separate from definitions
* Define member and non-member functions [[Functions: member functions]][2]
* Explain what a default constructor is and does [[C++ object model: constructors]][3]

### Student outcomes

A student should be able to:

> 1. Call to a function with a default parameter with or without that parameter specified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Call to a function with a default argument with or without that argument specified
```

> 2. Declare a function with a default parameter, and omit the default in the definition's signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Declare a function with a default argument, and omit the default in the definition's signature
```

> 3. Explain what the requirements are for a type to be usable with a default parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Explain what the requirements are for a type to be usable as a default argument
```

> 4. Explain when the lifetime of a defaulted parameter begins and ends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Explain when the lifetime of a defaulted argument begins and ends
```

### Caveats

* When no forward-declaration exists, the definition serves as the declaration
* When multiple declarations exist, only one may specify the default for any particular parameter, but multiple declarations may specify the defaults for different parameters.
* Additional default values may be specified for other parameters in repeat declarations

> * Calling an overloaded function with fewer parameters may be ambiguous with regard to an overload with defaulted parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Calling an overloaded function with fewer arguments may be ambiguous with regard to an overload with default arguments
```

### Points to cover

* Default value may only be specified once for each parameter among all declarations
* Default values must start from the rightmost parameter and continue leftward without gaps
* Considerations of when to use default arguments vs overload set

## Main: implementing *

### Background/required knowledge

* All of the above.

### Student outcomes

A student should be able to:

### Caveats

### Points to cover

## Advanced

Subsequent redeclarations of the same function may add default argument
values, which are then usable by callers.
Though a single argument cannot be given a default twice in the same 
translation unit, it is legal, though ill-advised, to give the same

> function different default parameters in different translation units.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function different default arguments in different translation units.
```

# Module name: defaulted parameters
_Skeleton instructions are typeset in italic text._

## Overview

Functions in C++ may be overloaded with different numbers and types of 
parameters. It may be of value to specify default values for some number 
of parameters, to allow a caller to avoid specifying parameters that 
rarely change, or to enable expanding the set of parameters while 
maintaining backward compatibility with existing callers.

<table>
  <thead>
    <th>Level</th>
    <th>Objectives</th>
  </thead>
  <tr>

>     <td>Foundational knowledge</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Foundational</td>
```

    <td>Define and use functions with defaulted parameters</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Advanced</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Main</td>
```

    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Further studies</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Advanced</td>
```

    <td>refinement of defaulted parameters through multiple declarations</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Motivation

Default parameters allow the omission of parameters with obvious or common
values. Also may be utilized to extend an existing function signature 
without forcing changes to existing calling code.

## Topic introduction

Explain how default parameters work and how to define them.

> ## Foundational knowledge: Using and defining functions with default arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Foundational: Using and defining functions with default arguments
```

### Student outcomes

A student should be able to:

1. Call to a function with a default parameter with or without that parameter specified
2. Declare a function with a default parameter, and omit the default in the definition's signature
3. Explain what the requirements are for a type to be usable with a default parameter
4. Explain when the lifetime of a defaulted parameter begins and ends

### Caveats

* When no forward-declaration exists, the definition serves as the declaration
* When multiple declarations exist, only one may specify the default for any particular parameter, but multiple declarations may specify the defaults for different parameters.
* Additional default values may be specified for other parameters in repeat declarations
* Calling an overloaded function with fewer parameters may be ambiguous with regard to an overload with defaulted parameters

### Points to cover

* Default value may only be specified once for each parameter among all declarations
* Default values must start from the rightmost parameter and continue leftward without gaps
* Considerations of when to use default arguments vs overload set

> ## Advanced: implementing *

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Main: implementing *
```

### Background/required knowledge

* All of the above.

### Student outcomes

A student should be able to:

### Caveats

### Points to cover

> ## Further studies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Advanced
```

Subsequent redeclarations of the same function may add default argument
values, which are then usable by callers.
Though a single argument cannot be given a default twice in the same 

> translation unit, it is legal, though perhaps ill-advised, to give the same

Reviewer 2: `s/perhaps //`

# Module name: default argument
_Skeleton instructions are typeset in italic text._

## Overview

Functions in C++ may be overloaded with different numbers and types of 

> parameters. It may be of value to specify default values for some number 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
parameters. It may be of value to specify default arguments for some number 
```

A student should be able to:

1. Call to a function with a default argument with or without that argument specified
2. Declare a function with a default argument, and omit the default in the definition's signature

> 3. Explain what the requirements are for a type to be usable as a default argument

Reviewer 3: This doesn't make sense to me: a type is not used as a default argument, an initializer is.

Author: Would such be better?
"Explain what the requirements are on a type for a value of that type to be usable as a default argument"

Reviewer 2: *Are* there any requirements on a type for a value of that type to be usable as a default argument? I can't think of any such requirements off the top of my head. You want a default argument of type `std::map<int, std::string>`?— no problem.

Reviewer: What's the current status of this? Should we adapt the alternative wording from @rwdougla ?

Author: I've removed the bullet point. I can't even recall what I had in mind for it, anyway. If someone has an idea as to why it would be useful, we can always add it back in later

> 4. Explain when the lifetime of a defaulted argument begins and ends

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Explain when the lifetime of a default argument begins and ends
```

values, which are then usable by callers.

> Though a single argument cannot be given a default twice in the same 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Though a single parameter cannot be given a default argument twice in the same 
```

translation unit, it is legal, though ill-advised, to give the same

> function different default arguments in different translation units.

Reviewer 3: This has never been true for inline functions, and is no longer true for any functions: http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2019/p1766r1.html#default-argument-inconsistency

Reviewer 3: It is permissible to give functions different default arguments in different *scopes* (eg, a block-scope function declaration can have default arguments and those need not match those in any other scope), but that's an expert-level topic.

Reviewer 2: Off-topic for SG20, but: In what sense could the same lexical "scope" span two completely different "translation units"? I don't see any teachable difference between

```
// main.cpp
int foo() { extern int d(int x=1); d(); }
int bar() { extern int d(int x=2); d(); }
```
and
```
// foo.cpp
int d(int x=1); int foo() { d(); }
// bar.cpp
int d(int x=2); int foo() { d(); }
```
I agree that this is an "expert-level topic" and in fact teachers should be very clear with their students that you should _never ever_ give the same function different default arguments. (I simply teach that [default function arguments are the devil](https://quuxplusone.github.io/blog/2020/04/18/default-function-arguments-are-the-devil/), and leave it at that.)

Author: I believe this is one of those topics that fall under my category of "Never write this, but you may need to be aware of it when dealing with other developers or long-lived codebases." IIUC, this is in the most "advanced" section we have in our skeleton.  Though now that it is forbidden across translation units, I'd be fine to strike the paragraph, altogether, unless there's something interesting there to keep.

Reviewer 3: @Quuxplusone (Continuing off-topic discussion. Perhaps we should move this to email?)

> In what sense could the same lexical "scope" span two completely different "translation units"?

This can happen via `extern "C"`:
```
namespace A { extern "C" void f(int = 1); }
namespace B { extern "C" void f(int = 2); }
```
... declares the same function with different default arguments in two different scopes, both of which can span multiple translation units.

> I don't see any teachable difference between
> ```
> // main.cpp
> int foo() { extern int d(int x=1); d(); }
> int bar() { extern int d(int x=2); d(); }
> ```
> and
>```
> // foo.cpp
> int d(int x=1); int foo() { d(); }
> ```
> ```
> // bar.cpp
> int d(int x=2); int foo() { d(); }
> ```

Well, the former is valid and the latter is ill-formed (NDR). Whether that qualifies as a teachable difference would depend on the level of the audience, though even at expert level I think it's probably not worth mentioning. "Don't do that" seems like substantially better advice to me, both for declaring the same function with different default arguments, and for block-scope function declarations.
